---
title: What is language?
tags: language time
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

In my views, a language is symbolic system for the description of pretty much anything.

<!--more-->

As I looked to understand language, the first thing I tried is determining its component parts. What is language made out of?
The most important element of a language is its "alphabet of concepts". In this context, the alphabet is not the single letters which we assemble into words. In this view the alphabet is the words themselves, the concepts, the word-stems.

When I say "the elements of the alphabet" I could have said _"the words"_ or _"the concepts"_ within the language. I call these "the _symbols_ within the language".

Another key component of a language system is how the symbols are always about some other entity. It is relevant to point out that the symbols are not necessariy about entities outside the language, often the symbols refer to other symbols or entities within the language.

Finally, the notion of "within" the language is quite important. It's as if the language (the symbolic system) establishes an "inside".

To further understand language I have needed to clarify my ontological posture. If we are to talk about langauge with its symbolic representations we need to understand what is there which can be represented by the language. How does _potentially anything_ exist? What can we say about any potential entity describable within some language?


# Rudimentary ontology of time

I am convinced that no argument about the nature of existence can disregard time. In my view, time is a key definitional aspect of things which exist.

As I clarified my ontological understanding, I relied on a distinction between things which exist statically and unchangingly; and things which exist -- rather, _are existing_ -- dynamically and temporarilly.

Due to this distincion I have concluded that time is fundametally a concept which __exists__; this means that time is an statically unchanging concept.

At the moment I think that static concepts which exist (but aren't __existing__) are abstract ideas always contained within some language.
Some of these abstract ideas are of such mathematically inescapable nature that they will manifest in any language in some way or another.

The most basic of these abstract and non-physical (non-material) concepts is _the void_ (also known as nothingness or emptyness; mathematically formalized as the number zero). The next one is time; but I tend to think it's more accurately labeled as "time-energy".
